README.md, before:


# SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation

<a href="https://yael-vinker.github.io/sketch-agent/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Project&message=Website&color=blue"></a>
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2311.13608-b31b1b.svg"></a>
<a href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-yellow"></a>

<br>
<p align="center">
<img src="repo_images/teaser.jpg" width="90%"/>  
  
> <a href="">**SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation**</a>
>
<a href="https://yael-vinker.github.io/website/" target="_blank">Yael Vinker</a>,
<a href="https://tamarott.github.io/" target="_blank">Tamar Rott Shaham</a>,
<a href="https://kristinezheng.github.io/" target="_blank">Kristine Zheng</a>,
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-zhao-a28b12176/" target="_blank">Alex Zhao</a>,
<a href="https://profiles.stanford.edu/judith-fan" target="_blank">Judith E Fan</a>,
<a href="https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/torralbalab/" target="_blank">Antonio Torralba</a>

> <br>
>  SketchAgent leverages an off-the-shelf multimodal LLM to facilitate language-driven, sequential sketch generation through an intuitive sketching language. It can sketch diverse concepts, engage in interactive sketching with humans, and edit content via chat.
</p>

## Setup
Clone the repository and navigate to the project folder:
```
git clone https://github.com/yael-vinker/SketchAgent.git
cd SketchAgent
```
Set up the environment:
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate sketch_agent
```

**For Mac users**, use the following environment file instead:
```
conda env create -f mac_environment.yml
conda activate sketch_agent
```
If python flashes a warning at you, try reinstalling `cairosvg`:
```
conda uninstall cairosvg && conda install cairosvg
```

#### API Key
This repository requires an Anthropic API key. If you don't have one, [create an Anthropic account](https://console.anthropic.com/login) and follow the instructions to obtain a key.

Once you have the key, save it in the ```.env``` file:
```
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<your_key>
```

# Start Sketching! :woman_artist: :art:
## Text-to-Sketch
Generate a single sketch by running:
```
python gen_sketch.py --concept_to_draw "<your_concept_here>" 
```
For example:
```
python gen_sketch.py --concept_to_draw "sailboat" 
```

Optional arguments:
* ```--seed_mode``` Default is ```"deterministic"``` for reproducible results. Set to ```"stochastic"``` for increased variability.
* ```--path2save``` By default, results are saved to ```results/test/```.

## Collaborative Sketching
Collaborate with SketchAgent by alternating strokes! 
To use the interactive interface:
```
python collab_sketch.py
```
This will launch a Flask-based web application. Once running, look for the following output in the terminal:
```
Server running at: http://<your-ip-address>:5000
```
Open the provided URL in your web browser to interact with the application. Results are saved to ```results/collab_sketching/```.
Use the text box to change the concept to be drawn.


## Tips:
* The ```gen_sketch.py``` script produces sketches with variability. Try running it multiple times to explore different outcomes.
* Prompts are available in the ```prompts.py file```. For unique concepts, ensure that your input prompt is clear and meaningful.

## TODOs

- [ ] Add support for chat based editing.
- [ ] Add SVG drawing process animations in HTML.
- [ ] Add support of other backbone models (GPT4o, LLama3).

## Citation
If you find this useful for your research, please cite the following:
```bibtex
@misc{vinker2024sketchagent,
      title={SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation}, 
      author={Yael Vinker and Tamar Rott Shaham and Kristine Zheng and Alex Zhao and Judith E Fan and Antonio Torralba},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2411.17673},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673}, 
}
```

Commit message:

Add chat-based editing interface

README.md, after:


# SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation

<a href="https://yael-vinker.github.io/sketch-agent/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Project&message=Website&color=blue"></a>
<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-2311.13608-b31b1b.svg"></a>
<a href="https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache-yellow"></a>

<br>
<p align="center">
<img src="repo_images/teaser.jpg" width="90%"/>  
  
> <a href="">**SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation**</a>
>
<a href="https://yael-vinker.github.io/website/" target="_blank">Yael Vinker</a>,
<a href="https://tamarott.github.io/" target="_blank">Tamar Rott Shaham</a>,
<a href="https://kristinezheng.github.io/" target="_blank">Kristine Zheng</a>,
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/alex-zhao-a28b12176/" target="_blank">Alex Zhao</a>,
<a href="https://profiles.stanford.edu/judith-fan" target="_blank">Judith E Fan</a>,
<a href="https://groups.csail.mit.edu/vision/torralbalab/" target="_blank">Antonio Torralba</a>

> <br>
>  SketchAgent leverages an off-the-shelf multimodal LLM to facilitate language-driven, sequential sketch generation through an intuitive sketching language. It can sketch diverse concepts, engage in interactive sketching with humans, and edit content via chat.
</p>

## Setup
Clone the repository and navigate to the project folder:
```
git clone https://github.com/yael-vinker/SketchAgent.git
cd SketchAgent
```
Set up the environment:
```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate sketch_agent
```

**For Mac users**, use the following environment file instead:
```
conda env create -f mac_environment.yml
conda activate sketch_agent
```
If python flashes a warning at you, try reinstalling `cairosvg`:
```
conda uninstall cairosvg && conda install cairosvg
```

#### API Key
This repository requires an Anthropic API key. If you don't have one, [create an Anthropic account](https://console.anthropic.com/login) and follow the instructions to obtain a key.

Once you have the key, save it in the ```.env``` file:
```
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<your_key>
```

# Start Sketching! :woman_artist: :art:
## Text-to-Sketch
Generate a single sketch by running:
```
python gen_sketch.py --concept_to_draw "<your_concept_here>" 
```
For example:
```
python gen_sketch.py --concept_to_draw "sailboat" 
```

Optional arguments:
* ```--seed_mode``` Default is ```"deterministic"``` for reproducible results. Set to ```"stochastic"``` for increased variability.
* ```--path2save``` By default, results are saved to ```results/test/```.

## Collaborative Sketching
Collaborate with SketchAgent by alternating strokes! 
To use the interactive interface:
```
python collab_sketch.py
```
This will launch a Flask-based web application. Once running, look for the following output in the terminal:
```
Server running at: http://<your-ip-address>:5000
```
Open the provided URL in your web browser to interact with the application. Results are saved to ```results/collab_sketching/```.
Use the text box to change the concept to be drawn.

## Chat-Based Editing
Interact with SketchAgent through natural language to edit existing sketches!
To use the chat-based editing interface:
```
python chat_and_edit.py
```
This will launch a Flask-based web application. Once running, look for the following output in the terminal:
```
Server running at: http://<your-ip-address>:5000
```
This will launch a Flask-based web application where you can:

- Give textual instructions to edit specific elements
- Add new elements through conversation

Results are saved to ```results/api_{timestamp}_{session_id}```.

## Tips:
* The ```gen_sketch.py``` script produces sketches with variability. Try running it multiple times to explore different outcomes.
* Prompts are available in the ```prompts.py file```. For unique concepts, ensure that your input prompt is clear and meaningful.

## TODOs

- [ ] Add support for chat based editing.
- [ ] Add SVG drawing process animations in HTML.
- [ ] Add support of other backbone models (GPT4o, LLama3).

## Citation
If you find this useful for your research, please cite the following:
```bibtex
@misc{vinker2024sketchagent,
      title={SketchAgent: Language-Driven Sequential Sketch Generation}, 
      author={Yael Vinker and Tamar Rott Shaham and Kristine Zheng and Alex Zhao and Judith E Fan and Antonio Torralba},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2411.17673},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CV},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17673}, 
}
```
